.. _grid5000:

Grid'5000
=========

Quick start
-----------

To access the Grid'5000 API, you must configure `python-grid5000
<https://pypi.org/project/python-grid5000/>`_.  Roughly there is two
possibilities.  First, when you access to Grid'5000 from outside of it
(e.g from your local workstation). In such a case, you need to specify
the following configuration file:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ echo '
    username: MYLOGIN
    password: MYPASSWORD
    ' > ~/.python-grid5000.yaml
    $ chmod 600 ~/.python-grid5000.yaml

Second, when you access to the API from inside Grid’5000 (e.g., a
Grid'5000 frontend). In such case, providing the username and password
is unnecessary.  The python-grid5000 lib only need to deal with SSL
verification by specifying the path to the certificate to use:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ echo '
    verify_ssl: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
    ' > ~/.python-grid5000.yaml

.. note::

  You may want to refer to the installation section of python-grid5000
  library to correctly configure your Grid'5000 connection
  information. See https://pypi.org/project/python-grid5000/

After that, ask Enos to create a new ``reservation.yaml`` file with
the provider ``g5k``. Then review the information in the file
(especially, the walltime and cluster names for resources). And you
are ready for the deployment of OpenStack.


.. code-block:: bash

    $ enos new --provider=g5k
    $ <editor> reservation.yaml  # optional
    $ enos deploy


.. note::

   On Grid'5000, we recommend to install Enos in a virtual
   environment.  Refer to the :ref:`installation` section for more
   information.

Provider configuration
----------------------

The provider comes with the following default options:

.. literalinclude:: ../../enos/provider/g5k.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: # - SPHINX_DEFAULT_CONFIG
   :end-before: # + SPHINX_DEFAULT_CONFIG

They can be overriden in the configuration file.

Reservation
^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to reserve in advance the ressources needed by your deployment you can
set the ``reservation`` key to the desired start date. And launch ``enos
deploy``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Reserve the 29. February 2020 at 19:00:00 for 14 hours
    provider:
      type: g5k
      ...
      reservation: 2020-02-29 19:00:00
      walltime: 14:00:00
      ...

EnOS will wait for the job to start. You can keep the process running in the
background (e.g using a screen). Alternatively you can stop it (once the
reservation is done) and relaunch it later with the exact same configuration
file. For this purpose you can leverage the ``-f`` options of EnOS.


Basic complete example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The provider relies on cluster names to group the wanted resources. For example
the following is a valid resources description:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/functionnal/tests/grid5000/basic-00.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:


Deployment from a Grid'5000 node
--------------------------------

If you want to run the deployment from within Grid'5000, we suggest
you to run the deployment from a dedicated node (especially for large
deployment). For now the recommended way to do so is to reserve one
node prior to your reservation. In the case of an interactive
deployment:

.. code-block:: bash

    frontend$ oarsub -I -l 'walltime=2:00:00'
    node$ source venv/bin/activate
    node$ <edit configuration>
    node$ enos deploy

Advanced example
----------------

The following is equivalent to the basic configuration but allows for a finer
grained definition of the resources and associated roles.

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/functionnal/tests/grid5000/advanced-00.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :linenos:


Building an Environment
-----------------------

A personalised environment stored in Grid'5000, containing all the dependencies
to install OpenStack in subsequent deployments, may be built directly from
command line on-the-fly without and intermediary deploy execution. Run the
command ``enos build g5k``, changing the default values accordingly (specially
the ``--cluster`` one).

In order to complete the environment construction, after the execution of EnOS
on the frontend execute the ``tgz-g5k`` command following the instructions of
the `Grid5000 documentation
<https://www.grid5000.fr/w/Advanced_Kadeploy#Create_a_new_environment_from_a_customized_environment>`_
to finish the registration of the new environment.

Once the environment is registered in the database, the name of this environment
can be used in the EnOS configuration replacing the default one. For example,
let's suppose we want to use a personalised environment named
``enos-debian10-x64-openstack``, then the configuration can be set as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

   provider:
     type: g5k
     env_name: enos-debian10-x64-openstack
     ...
